.\" Copyright (c) 2002 Robert Hepple
.TH GJOTS2DOCBOOK 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
gjots2docbook \- Convert a gjotsfile to DOCBOOK (on 
.BR stdout )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B gjots2docbook
.BR \-a | \-b
[
.B \-e
]
[
.B \-P
]
[
.B \-p
]
[
.I gjotsfile
]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gjots2docbook
converts a gjotsfile into DOCBOOK XML.
.P
.B gjots2docbook
uses
.BR awk (1)
to perform the conversion.
.P
.B gjots2docbook
does not create them so the first element in the file should contain
any <bookinfo> or <artheader> element. Similarly, <bibliographic>
elements are not created. In fact the output is very simplistic with
item titles in the
.B gjotsfile
being converted to chapter or section headings in DOCBOOK. There is no
reason why your gjotsfile should not contain valid DOCBOOK XML - and
that is why the \-e and \-p options are provided.
.P
If the file does not start with <?xml ...> then appropriate lines will
be added as follows:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
.br
<!DOCTYPE doc_type PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DocBook XML V4.1.2//EN">
.fi
.RE
.P
If properly installed, the docbook utilities can then be used to create HTML, 
man, ps, pdf etc files eg:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
gjots2docbook \-b ~/.gjotsfile >gjotsfile.xml
.br
docbook2pdf gjotsfile.xml
.fi
.RE
.P
It may be necessary to fine-tune the docbook formatting to access all features.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-a
makes a DOCBOOK article
.TP
.B \-b
makes a DOCBOOK book
.TP
.B \-e
don't encode special characters eg < -> &lt;
.TP
.B \-p
don't change blank lines to </para><para> markers 
.TP
.B \-P
first section is a preface rather than a chapter (book only)
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Bob Hepple <bhepple@freeshell.org>
.P
.RB http://bhepple.freeshell.org/gjots
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (c) 2002 Robert Hepple
.br
This  is  free software; see the source for copying conditions.
There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gjots (1),
.BR gjots2html (1),
.BR docbook2gjots (1)
