.\" Copyright (c) 2004 Robert Hepple
.\" $Id: gjots2.1,v 1.4.4.2 2010/10/31 08:31:00 bhepple Exp $
.TH GJOTS2 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
gjots2 \- A gnome-2/X11 jotter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B gjots2
.RB "[\|" "options" "\|]"
.I gjotsfile 
.ad b
.hy 0
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B gjots2
is a fairly simple jotter application for your desktop. It displays
your data organised in a tree with each leaf being your text.
.P
Getting data into 
.BR gjots2
is fairly easy - you can type it in, cut and paste text or use an editor to convert other text files to
the simple
.B gjots2
format (see below for details). You can also convert an existing
DOCBOOK file into
.B gjots2
format with
.BR docbook2gjots (1).
.P
.B gjots2
files can be simply converted into HTML using
.BR gjots2html (1)
or into DOCBOOK with
.BR gjots2docbook (1)
.P
Sensitive data can be encrypted by 
.BR ccrypt "(1), " openssl "(1) or " gpg (1)
simply by saving with an appropriate file suffix and providing a password:
.P
.RS
.TP 10
.B ccrypt
 .cpt
.TP 10
.B openssl
 .ssl
.TP 10
.B gpg
 .gpg
.RE
.P
Don't forget your passwords. Obviously, the appropriate encryption
utility must have been installed.
.P
Simple text formatting is provided with the usual cut & paste
operations and paragraph formatting (line wrapping) according to the
line length set in 
.I "Settings->Preferences."
Lines are formatted by pressing
the
.I Wrap
button or ^L. This requires the
.BR fmt (1)
command which is in the
.I coreutils
package in 
.B fedora
and in the
.I sys-apps/textutils
directory on
.BR Gentoo .
.P
An external editor (configured in 
.IR "Settings->Preferences" )
can be invoked by pressing the 
.B "Ext.Ed"
button. 
.B gjots2
is suspended while the editing is carried on.
.P
File locking is implemented by a lockfile
.RI ( .#filename )
in the same directory as the
file being edited. Multiple users can open the file readonly but only
one user can open the file for writing. Since the locking is done with
a lockfile even NFS-mounted files can be protected.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-help
Prints help.
.TP
\fB\-g\fR, \fB\-\-geometry\fR \fIWIDTHxHEIGHT\fR[\fI+X+Y\fR]
Initial window geometry for
.B gjots2.
Note that the X and Y components are presently ignored.
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-purge-password\fR
When opening an encrypted file,
.B gjots
now remembers the password for subsequent writes. To restore the old behaviour where
.B gjots
purged the password, use this option.
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-readonly\fR
Opens the gjotsfile in readonly mode (with no locking and no ability
to write)
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-debug\fR
debug to stdout
.TP
\fB\-t\fR, \fB\-\-trace\fR
trace lines as they execute
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the version and quit
.SH "FILES"
.BI $HOME/.gjotsfile
The default data file
.TP
\&`\fBdirname \fP\fIfilename\fP`\fI/.#\fP`\fBbasename\fP \fIfilename\fP`
The lock file for the file called 
.IR filename .
.SH "FILE FORMAT"
.B gjots2
uses a simple text file format with the addition of a hierarchy of
items introduced by keywords. The keywords need to be at the start of
line to be recognised. Only 3 keywords are presently used:
.TP 15
\fB\\NewEntry\fR
Starts a new entry
.TP 15
\fB\\NewFolder\fR
Promotes the current item to a folder
.TP 15
\fB\\EndFolder\fR
Ends a folder
.P
The first line in every entry is used as the 'title' for the tree.
.P
In a future release the \fB\\Option\fR keyword may be added.
.SH "EXAMPLE"
.nf
\\NewEntry 
title1
this is the stuff that goes into title1

\\NewFolder
\\NewEntry 
title3
title 3's stuff

\\EndFolder
.fi
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Bob Hepple <bhepple@freeshell.org>
.P
.RB http://bhepple.freeshell.org/gjots
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (c) 2002-2010 Robert Hepple
.br
This is free software; see the source for copying conditions. There is
NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gjots2html (1),
.BR gjots2docbook (1),
.BR docbook2gjots (1).
.P
Also, see the
.BR gjots2 (1)
README, probably as something like:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
gjots /usr/share/doc/gjots-0.8/gjots2.gjots
.ft
.RE
.P
or
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
netscape /usr/share/doc/gjots-0.8/gjots2.html
.ft
.fi
.RE
.P
