.\" Copyright (c) 2002-2020 Robert Hepple
.TH DOCBOOK2GJOTS 1 \" -*- nroff -*-
.SH NAME
docbook2gjots \- Convert a DOCBOOK file to gjots format (on 
.BR stdout )
.SH SYNOPSIS
.hy 0
.na
.B docbook2gjots
[
.I DOCBOOK-file
]
.ad b
.hy 1
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B docbook2gjots
converts a DOCBOOK XML file into gjots format.
.P
.B docbook2gjots
uses
.BR gawk (1)
to perform the conversion.
.P
.BR <preface> , 
.BR <chapter> ,  
.BR <section> ,  
.BR <sect1> ,  
.BR <sect2> ,  
.BR <sect3> 
and  
.BR <sect4>
tags are used to define
.B NewEntry
and
.B NewFolder
boundaries. They should definitely have 
.BR <title> 
tags.
.P
This is a quick and dirty hack using
.BR gawk (1)
and does no formal checking of XML or SGML syntax nor does it validate
against the DOCBOOK DTD. Consequently, if the syntax of the file is
broken the conversion will probably fail.
.P
It is intended that a round-trip can be made so that
.BR gjots (1)
can be used as a tool at all stages of DOCBOOK production - mainly as
an outline processor to help the author organise and order the work.
A document may well start its life in
.BR gjots (1)
as the initial thoughts are marshalled. As the document forms up, it
can be converted to DOCBOOK with the following command which
automatically adds tags such as 
.BR <?xml...> , 
.B <para> 
etc:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
gjots2docbook -b file.gjots >file.xml
.br
docbook2pdf file.xml
.fi
.RE
.P
Or, starting with an existing DOCBOOK file:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
docbook2gjots file.xml >file.gjots
.fi
.RE
.P
In the latter case, the document will already have a lot of DOCBOOK
tags so to convert back to docbook, add the -e and -p options:
.P
.RS
.nf
.ft CW
gjots2docbook -b -p -e file.gjots >file.xml
.br
docbook2pdf file.xml
.fi
.RE
.P
.SH "AUTHOR"
Written by Bob Hepple <bhepple@freeshell.org>
.P
.RB http://bhepple.freeshell.org/gjots
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright (c) 2002 Robert Hepple
.br
This  is  free software; see the source for copying condi­
tions.  There is NO warranty; not even for MERCHANTABILITY
or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gjots (1),
.BR gjots2html (1),
.BR gjots2docbook (1)
